.\"
.\" Written 2012 by David Herrmann
.\" Dedicated to the Public Domain
.\"
.TH "XWIISHOW" 1 "February 2012" "David Herrmann" "Wii Remote Driver"
.SH NAME
xwiishow \- Test connected Wii Remote devices

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xwiishow [-h]
.br
.B xwiishow list
.br
.B xwiishow <num>
.br
.B xwiishow /sys/bus/hid/devices/<device>

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B xwiishow
tool, when called without arguments, shows a short usage information. If the
.B list
parameter is given, it lists all connected Wii Remotes. Each connected Wii
Remote is given a number. If you pass this number to
.B xwiishow
then this device is opened and the UI shows a graphical representation of the
device. Instead of passing this number you can also pass an absolute path to
the device-root in the sysfs directory.

In the ncurses-based interface you can press 'q' to quit the application, 'r' to
toggle the rumble motor and 'a' to toggle the accelerometer. See the xwiishow
help text for a more comprehensive list of shortcuts.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B $ xwiishow list
.br
No device path given. Listing devices:
.br
  Found device: /sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1d.1/usb3/3-2/3-2:1.0/bluetooth/hci0/hci0:11/0005:057E:0306.0001
.br
End of device list

.B $ xwiishow /sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1d.1/usb3/3-2/3-2:1.0/bluetooth/hci0/hci0:11/0005:057E:0306.0001
.br
<ncurses based interface>

.SH BUGS
This tool is quite incomplete. It does not support all interfaces that are
provided by the wiimote kernel driver. However, it provides enough functionality
to test whether a Wii Remote is detected properly.

The tool reads the input devices directly so you might need root rights to
properly access the Wii Remote.

.SH AUTHOR
David Herrmann <dh.herrmann@googlemail.com>
.br
The XWiimote Project: http://dvdhrm.github.io/xwiimote

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xwiimote (7),
.BR libxwiimote (7),
